[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>EMERY SMITH: Today
on Cosmic Disclosure,
we are with Richard Doty,
a retired special agent who
served in the Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
Richard was intimately
involved with UFO
ET-related intelligence.
Today, we are discussing
the Les Ramey story.
Richard, welcome to the show.
>>RICHARD C. DOTY:
Thank you, Emery.
Good to be here.
>>EMERY: So who is Les Ramey?
And what's his background
before we get started?
>>RICHARD: Les Ramey lived in
and around Rachel, Nevada way,
way, way back.
But the story actually
begins in a UFO convention
when Robert Dean--
Command Sergeant Major
Robert Dean, most people
know that he was involved with
UFOs for most of his life.
He was in the
United States Army.
He was stationed in
Europe when he had access
to some highly classified
documents pertaining
to UFOs and United
States involvement
with extraterrestrials.
So during one of the
conventions I was at,
Robert introduced me to Les
Ramey and Les told me his story.
And when he told
me a story, Robert
was able to back it up with
some additional information.
And then I went out on my own
and found some more information.
But Les's story
is quite amazing.
He was born in around Alamo,
Nevada, grew up in Alamo,
went to school, in
and around that area,
went in the United States Air
Force, served this country,
and got out of the Air Force.
And at that time period in the
late '60s, mining operations
were going on in
and around Nevada.
And close to his home in
Alamo, the Lincoln mine,
which is now right across
from Rachel, Nevada,
was in operation, but it
was in caretaker status.
So he applied for a job.
And he was one of six members
of a caretaking status team that
took care of the Lincoln mine.
He moved a trailer to what
is now Rachel, Nevada.
But back in those days,
it wasn't called Rachel.
It was called Sand
Springs, Tempe Valley.
And then eventually Rachel.
And the interesting part
of that, the name of Rachel
is the first born child that
occurred in that valley area.
They named it Rachel, and then
they named the town Rachel.
But in 1972, there
wasn't any Rachel.
There was just a
few trailers out
there in Western
Lincoln County, Nevada.
>>EMERY: So what
happened there in 1972?
>>RICHARD: On a summer
day, he took a walk.
Les took a walk towards what
was then the perimeter of Nellis
Test Range.
And as he got closer, he
saw a light, bright light
that was moving in towards him.
And then he saw
this thing landed.
It was a flying saucer.
He saw it as a flying
saucer, he relates.
And he thought,
well, that's probably
something from the air base.
Although Groom Lake, Area
51, Tonopah Test Range
wasn't known back in those days.
It existed.
It was there.
So he knew there was an
airbase there because he
saw the planes flying.
And he had been in
the Air Force and he
was stationed at Nellis
Air Force base beforehand,
so he had some knowledge.
And when it landed,
he thought, well,
this has to be
something from the base.
But as he walked closer,
he saw these humanoids
coming out of the spacecraft.
And the thing that
still, he says,
gets him today, they
weren't walking.
They were hovering.
It was like they
were on strings.
And they came over to him and
they stood in front of him
and he was somewhat
startled, but he felt at ease
because he was hearing voices in
his head saying, "We're not here
to harm you.
We're not here to harm you.
We're not here to harm you."
>>EMERY: How did they look?
>>RICHARD: Well, he
described it as robots.
>>EMERY: Robots?
>>RICHARD: Yeah.
>>EMERY: Hovering robots?
>>RICHARD: They were
hovering robots.
>>EMERY: OK.
>>RICHARD: He said they
didn't look at all like--
and again, this is
some years later,
so he said they doesn't look
like an extraterrestrial.
They were robots.
They were robotic.
They were in a suit
with a big helmet.
And so they didn't look
like little aliens.
Then they gestured for
him to come with them.
So he thought, he
didn't want to do that.
But something was pulling
him towards that spacecraft.
>>EMERY: Like a field of energy?
>>RICHARD: Yeah, he
felt it was something--
it wasn't his emotions.
It was something that was
literally pulling him like--
>>EMERY: So it's physically?
>>RICHARD: --a field of energy.
It was a physical movement.
So he got to the door.
He went inside.
He felt at ease at all time.
He didn't feel threatened.
And they directed him to a
location, a seat, a big sea.
They motioned for
him to sit down.
He was still hearing
voices in his head,
but he wasn't connecting
those voices necessarily
to the extraterrestrials.
And I think that's
a common thing that
happens to humans
when they encounter
extraterrestrials are using
telepathy or brain transfer.
They don't understand.
It's confusing at first.
Anyway, he sits
down in his chair.
A ball comes over him.
He's able to breathe
inside his ball.
And then he realizes,
oh, my gosh,
they're going to
take me someplace.
So he tried actually to
get up, but he couldn't.
He was stuck in this ball.
And next thing you know,
he got extremely dizzy.
And when he woke up, he was
in a very barren landscape.
And he looked around and
he saw these mud huts.
And he was totally confused.
And then a small--
he said, about 5
foot tall a figure
came towards him with a
rather large head, large eyes.
Les was about 5' 8", 5' 9".
And he's looking down, and
then suddenly this creature
in front of him started
talking in English.
It wasn't very good English,
but he could understand.
And he immediately detected the
voice to be that of a female.
So he assumed that this entity
in front of him was a female.
And she told him, "Be calm.
We're not here to hurt you.
We want to educate you.
We want you to show
you where we live."
And so he said, "OK."
And so she started moving him
around to location, explaining,
this is where we live
in these mud huts.
This is a building over here
where we have our flying crafts.
She didn't call it a
spacecraft, flying crafts.
And so she showed him around,
so to speak, very polite.
And then at one point, he
said, "I need to get back.
I need to get back to Earth."
He asked her where they were.
She wouldn't say.
And then he said, "I want
to get back to Earth."
So she said, "Fine."
She took him back
to the spacecraft.
He got back in,
sat in that seat.
The ball came
over, he got dizzy.
And when he woke up,
he walked outside
and he was exactly back
in Rachel where he left.
>>EMERY: Wow.
>>RICHARD: Now, he wasn't
married at the time,
but he had a girlfriend
in Alamo, Nevada.
But he didn't want
to tell her that.
So he went back to
his trailer and tried
to decide what he was
going to do from there.
>>EMERY: So we're
on what time period?
What year was this?
>>RICHARD: This was 1972.
>>EMERY: So it started in 1972.
How long did it last?
>>RICHARD: It lasted it
periodically for seven years.
And a few months later,
he went back there.
He had a calling.
Something was calling
him, and he went back
to the exact same location,
the same spot on the ground,
so to speak.
And this craft
came in and landed.
He gets to board.
He goes to this planet.
He meets again with
this female being.
Now, the first thing he did
the second time is ask her,
"What's your name."
>>EMERY: Right.
Yeah.
>>RICHARD: And she explained
that he wouldn't understand
the names, so she'll call
herself Kim because he
could understand that.
And when he asked, "OK, I
want to know where we're at.
What planet?
Where are we?"
And again, she came back
with the same explanation
is you wouldn't understand it.
I can't tell you something
that you won't understand.
So he left it at that.
The second time, he was taken
into a building, a big building.
It didn't seem to have any floor
to it as if he was floating.
He couldn't really
understand this.
But he looked around.
It was a huge building.
And these little creatures
were doing things, building
something.
>>EMERY: Robots or creatures?
>>RICHARD: No, these were
the entities exactly the same
as Kim, which was the
large head, 5 foot tall.
>>EMERY: Two arms,
two legs, bipedal.
>>RICHARD: Two arms, two legs.
And ironically, she
had five fingers.
And other than her head
or face, he identified her
as being somewhat human.
And so she showed him around.
And so he was thrilled by it.
And so he was there for
a certain period of time.
They sent him back.
Now, the second time,
he realized that there
was a lot of time missing.
The first time he
never timed himself.
He didn't know how
much time, but he
knew that it couldn't have
been too long because he
was able to get
back and go to work.
So it wasn't like it was
years or anything like that.
>>EMERY: Days, right.
>>RICHARD: But when he
came back the second time,
he looked at his
watch and realized
that he'd been gone
for about eight hours.
>>EMERY: No.
>>RICHARD: Now, he
couldn't understand it.
And he's somewhat
educated, but he
couldn't understand
how he could possibly
go to another planet
in that time period.
So after the second time,
he goes back and again,
he's not certain who he
could talk to about this.
And so he goes to
work and another one
of his fellow
workers, caretakers--
And there were
caretaking for this mine.
And he said it wasn't
very hard work.
They just had to
maintain the mine.
But this other person
that he worked with
said, where do you go
for your walk every day?
He lived not too far from Les.
And Les says,
"What do you mean?"
He said, "I see
you go for a walk,
and then you must walk for a
long ways because you come back
hours later."
And now Les was worried about
that, like is he not telling me
that he sees me getting
in a spacecraft or--
>>EMERY: Right.
Yeah.
>>RICHARD: So he
leaves it at that.
But that was a concern of Les.
So the third time that
Les goes down there--
he's the calling again.
He goes down.
And this is a winter time.
He said, this is winter.
There was snow on the
ground, it was cold outside.
I didn't really want
to go, because he
had to walk maybe half a mile.
Anyways, he didn't want
to go, but he went.
It's cold.
He gets there, craft
comes down, he gets in it,
they take him to the planet.
And when he gets out, he
notices that this planet
is extremely hot.
But he never realized that the
other two times he was there.
>>EMERY: Wow.
>>RICHARD: So he
couldn't figure that out.
But this time, they took
him into another room
and they put him in this seat
with other extraterrestrials
all looking like Kim but
men, because their voices
were that of men's voices.
They were speaking English and
they were asking him questions.
And the questions
they were asking him
were what he did
in the Air Force.
>>EMERY: So it's very specific.
It wasn't like, what
do you do in your life?
It was, what did you
do in the Air Force?
>>RICHARD: What you do in
the United States Air Force.
He was shocked they knew
United States, the Air Force.
Well, Les was a
nuclear technician
in the United States Air Force.
But he didn't want
them to know it.
And he thought-- this
was some years later.
I mean, he'd been out of
Air Force for seven or eight
years or nine years probably,
and so he didn't want to--
he knew that all was classified.
But they were able to
convince him to tell them
everything he knew, and he did.
Now, we've heard other
stories that I've talked about
and we've heard a number
of different people
talk about how interested
extraterrestrials
were in nuclear weapons.
Why are they asking
these questions?
Why are they concerned
with nuclear weapons?
And he asks them that.
He said, "Why are you
concerned with nuclear weapons?
You don't have nuclear weapons?"
No, we don't have them.
We don't know what they
are, but we want to know.
We see you use them.
Of course, remember,
right there,
they had Nevada test site where
they exploded nuclear weapons
almost every day underground
back in those days.
But before that, before 1963,
it was above-ground testing.
So they see this,
and now they want
to know what these things are.
And this is what really, really,
really concerned him was,
what are you going to do?
What are you going to
do with these things
if I talk to you about them.
Now, he was just a technician.
He didn't build them.
He maintained them.
>>EMERY: What's he going to say?
>>RICHARD: What's
he going to say?
But he told them
everything that he knew.
So now what?
He thinks he
betrayed his country.
So they send him back.
But before he got off the
spacecraft, this time,
Kim accompanied him.
Before, it was just these robots
that couldn't speak English
or didn't speak, that
were flying in this craft.
But this time, Kim
came back with him.
And Kim gave him
an object, a tube.
And he said--
>>EMERY: A tube?
>>RICHARD: A tube.
>>EMERY: OK.
>>RICHARD: A circular--
almost like a wand.
>>EMERY: A wand.
OK.
>>RICHARD: And said,
"This is my gift to you.
When you want to talk to me, you
talk in this and I'll talk back
to you."
And he thought it was odd
because he thought, well,
there must be hundreds of
thousands of miles away.
How can we talk like this?
But he took it and he took
it back to his trailer.
He puts it down in his trailer.
And he hid it in
the refrigerator.
And when I ask
him about that, he
had another entirely
different story.
So he continues to make
contact until 1979.
He left the mine, the
caretaker in the mine.
They closed the mine and now
he works for Lincoln County,
the road department.
And one day he was driving
down old Corn Creek Road.
And anybody that's ever
studied or ever researched
around the entrances
to Area 51, you're
going to know where
old Corn Creek Road is.
It's on the far Eastern
perimeter of the Nellis Test
and Training Range.
There's two entrances
that are closed
that you could go in there.
But he's driving
down this road and he
drives close to the perimeter
and he sees a craft.
And he didn't call for it.
He didn't do anything.
So he gets out and
walks up to it.
It wasn't Kim.
It was this other entity.
The other entity was about
the same size, looked exactly
like Kim, but it wasn't Kim.
He thought it was Kim,
identified himself to Kim.
It wasn't Kim.
>>EMERY: Who was it?
>>RICHARD: It was
another extraterrestrial.
And this extraterrestrial
says, "We
want you to come back
to our planet and live.
We want you to help us."
Now, this is '79, seven years
after this first contact.
He has a job.
This time, he's not
married, but he's
engaged to this girl at Alamo.
And they were
planning a marriage.
And I believe he said this
particular incident happened
in early April or the spring.
And he said, "No, I'm
not going to do that.
I'm not leaving."
And they said, "Yes, you
have to come with us."
So at that point, he
got into his truck
and he drove away, fearing that
they're going to come after him.
>>EMERY: OK.
>>RICHARD: So
eventually, he gets back
to his home, which
is still in Rachel.
And now it's called Rachel.
He's scared to death.
He doesn't know what to do.
So he thinks he needs now
to report it to authorities.
Who does he report it to?
He doesn't know.
So one morning he
wakes up to go to work.
And just as he goes
to the front door,
there's a knock on the door.
And he opens the door
and these two men
are outside who identify
themselves as federal agents.
One's an OSI agent,
one's an FBI agent.
They come in and
they said, we need
to talk to you about something.
And he knows now.
>>EMERY: He knows right away.
Yeah.
>>RICHARD: The OSI agent
said, "Les, somebody gave you
something some time ago.
And we need that
because if you keep it,
it's dangerous to you
and you're going to die."
Now Les says, God, I'm
scared to death now.
Now, if I don't go get
it and give it to them,
they can search it and
search my property anyway.
>>EMERY: Sure.
>>RICHARD: So he tried the
avoidance plan on his part.
He kept saying, I don't know
what you're talking about,
who you're talking about."
And the OSI agent
says, "We have somebody
that knows who you know.
And we know that person
saw another person give you
the object."
>>EMERY: Uh-oh.
>>RICHARD: So now he's scared.
He thinks that there's people
out there with cameras.
He thought all sorts of things.
So he went to the
refrigerator, he gets it out
of the refrigerator and he
gives it to the two agents.
And then they start
interrogating him, asking
him exactly what this person--
and they called him a person.
They didn't say to Les it was
an extraterrestrial or anything
like that.
And Les was telling them.
Eventually, Les says,
"These weren't humans."
And the OSI agent says, "What
makes you think they're not
humans."
He said, "Because they put me
in a spacecraft and he flew me
to another planet."
He says, "You think so?"
And Les says, "If they weren't
aliens, what are you doing here?
Why did you take that from me."
He said, "We have
friends that work
with them and we
can't let something
like this get out of the hands.
If this came into the public,
there's going to be problems."
So Les says, "OK."
And they left and Les
expected to be arrested,
but he never was.
>>EMERY: What did Ramey learn
from these extraterrestrials?
>>RICHARD: Well, Kim, every
time he had contact with Kim,
she would portray
information to him,
but he didn't understand
what she was talking about.
>>EMERY: Right.
It was over his head.
>>RICHARD: She gave him a design
on a very flimsy piece of paper.
And he had no idea
what this design was.
So when he took it back to
his trailer and he put it down
and he'd look at
it and he moved it,
turned it in all sorts
of different ways,
and he couldn't figure
out what it was.
So he put it away
like it was a gift
that he couldn't understand.
And when he went
back another time,
she gave him something else.
And he said, "Well,
first of all,
you gave me something
the last time.
And it was a design
of something.
What was it?"
And she said, "That's you.
What I showed you was you."
And he didn't understand that.
He had no idea what that was.
And, me?
What do you mean me?
That's you.
Well, she couldn't relate
to him what DNA was.
And he didn't know what DNA was.
And back in those days,
very, very few people
knew what DNA was.
So she gave him an actual
picture of a strand of DNA.
That was him.
Now, years later, he's
going to figure that out.
And then she gives
him other things
that he didn't understand
but he kept them.
>>EMERY: Yeah.
>>RICHARD: And then he
never saw her again,
but he kept looking at this.
And he was reading an article in
a newspaper in about 2001 or 2.
He doesn't remember exactly.
He said it was after 9/11.
And he saw a strand of
DNA in this magazine.
And he went and got out--
in a safe.
He kept it in a safe.
>>EMERY: The picture.
>>RICHARD: This picture.
And it matched exactly what
a DNA strand looked like.
So she was telling him what she
couldn't explain fully to him
that maybe--
and he thinks now or then
when I met with him--
that she was telling
him that we created you
and this is what you
are, this DNA strand.
And some of these other
things that he had,
now he realized, my god, she
gave me this stuff years ago.
And now he started researching.
He had-- went to
college after this all,
so he's somewhat educated in
like viruses and bacteria.
And some of these things look
like viruses or bacteria.
And later he had given it to a
doctor who later confirmed that.
So she was giving him
knowledge that she already
knew about him and
about this planet.
And what does that make him feel
like that they have been here
before and maybe
they created us.
>>EMERY: So how did these
ongoing visits, these contacts
with Kim, moving
forward, how did it
affect Ramey's life and his
professional life as well?
>>RICHARD: First of
all, he eventually,
after that last contact
on old Corn Creek Road,
where he virtually ran
away from this craft,
he figured he had
to tell his fiancée.
They were getting
married in a few months
and so he had to tell her.
So he sat one night
in their trailer--
and he still lived
in that trailer.
>>EMERY: And this is the first
time ever telling her anything.
>>RICHARD: First time ever
revealing anything to her
after seven years of contact
with an extraterrestrial.
He sat her down and
told her his story.
He said virtually the same
story I'm telling you now.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>RICHARD: She looked at him
and she got up, packed her bags,
and left.
And he tried to stop
her and she said,
you're crazy, I don't want
anything to do with you,
and left.
Now, the incident with his
fiancée demoralized him.
And so now what does he do?
He can't tell anybody this
story anymore because this
is what's going to happen.
So he started going in the late
'90s to some UFO conventions
trying to see maybe he could see
people or talk to people that
had the same
experience as he did.
And lo and behold, he did.
He talked to a lady who was
somewhat older than him,
but had similar experiences.
And she was an experiencer.
And they got together
and eventually, they
got married some years later.
And unfortunately,
Les passed away.
But when he talked to me
with Robert Dean present,
he told me that he never felt
comfortable around people
because he had knowledge
that they didn't have.
And he always wanted to
jump out and say things,
but he thought that they're
not going to believe me.
They're going to tell me you're
nuts like my ex fiancée did.
And so that had
affected his life.
It really did affect his life.
And he always thought
because of the knowledge
that he had of nuclear
weapons that they
were going to come back.
But fortunately for him,
they never came back.
>>EMERY: What did the Air Force
Office of Special Investigations
comment on Ramey's claims
throughout this whole thing.
>>RICHARD: Well,
sometime later, he
went to OSI at Nellis Air Force
base and wanted to talk to them.
>>EMERY: This was years after.
>>RICHARD: This is
some years later.
And wanted the device that
was taken from him back.
And when he spoke to OSI, the
initial agents he spoke with him
and had no idea who
he was or anything.
>>EMERY: Of course not.
Yeah.
>>RICHARD: But eventually,
they got his name and said,
we'll get back in
touch with you.
Some weeks later, they
call him up and said,
you come in and talk
to one of the agents.
It was a female agent who I
actually knew at one time.
And so he came into the office
and he tells her this story.
He says, "Can I have that back?"
And she says, "Do you actually
think we can give that back
to you."
She said, "That's not from here.
You know that.
And if we gave that
back to you, they're
going to know how to find you.
And you don't want that."
So she said, "I suggest you just
get up, forget this happened,
and get out of this office."
And he said that's almost
verbatim what she said to him.
And he decided he'd
follow her orders.
And he didn't think
about the fact
that maybe this thing was
not only could he call them,
they could hone in on him.
And maybe that's why they
haven't contacted him since.
>>EMERY: Once they
took that device away,
is that when his contacted
experiences ended?
>>RICHARD: Yes he never
had any more contact.
He had dreams.
He had some visions
that right afterwards.
But he thought that would
be just a natural reaction
to what he had gone through.
But never again did he
have any contact with them.
>>EMERY: So what was his legacy?
Was there anything left that was
great for the field of ufology?
>>RICHARD: Privately
speaking, I guess
it was, at least for OSI and for
the US government intelligence.
>>EMERY: It was definitely
documented, right.
>>RICHARD: It was documented.
And the intelligence
community got an alien device.
So even though he wasn't
credited directly,
I would say that he was credited
with obtaining something
from an extraterrestrial race
and providing the United States
government with it.
>>EMERY: Are you aware of that
technology later on, Rick,
going anywhere else or
being reverse engineered?
>>RICHARD: There are a lot
of rumors to that effect.
>>EMERY: There's
been similar types
of-- these types of devices.
>>RICHARD: There's
people out there
like Chris Mellon
and some others who
talk about devices that we
have obtained from somewhere.
And I think they're
talking about what Les got
and what Les had to turn
over to our government.
And I'm sure at least we're
trying to reverse engineer it.
Whether we actually have
or not, I don't know.
>>EMERY: And you're
not aware of actually
AFOSI utilizing that device
to make contact and find out
who Kim is?
>>RICHARD: I wish I
had that information.
But no, I don't have
that information.
>>EMERY: Well, once again,
Rick, very fascinating story.
Thank you so much for sharing.
>>RICHARD: Thank you, Emery.
>>EMERY: I'm Emery Smith, and
this is Cosmic Disclosure.
Until next time.
[THEME MUSIC]